Steve Jobs’s office remains Steve Jobs’s office. After his death in 2011, Tim
Cook, his friend and successor as Apple (AAPL) chief executive officer,
decided to leave the sparsely decorated room on the fourth floor of 1 Infinite
Loop untouched. It’s not a shrine or place of mourning, but just a space that
Cook sensed no one could or should ever fill. “It felt right to leave it as it
is,” he says. “That’s Steve’s office.”

Almost everything else on Apple’s campus in Cupertino, Calif., is different.
The executive wing once radiated nervous energy, with handlers scurrying to
anticipate the whims of Apple’s temperamental co-founder. Now there’s
tranquility in the hallways, a reflection of the new boss’s calm Southern
demeanor. Downstairs, the cafeterias are packed—the workforce has almost
doubled. A mile away, behind a ring of fences, construction crews are building
the massive foundation for the circular “spaceship” campus that will
accommodate 12,000 workers when it’s completed in a few years.

Until Sept. 9, all the other changes at the world’s most valuable and
scrutinized company were largely invisible to the public. Then Tim Cook took
the stage at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts and laid out much of
what Apple has been working on over the past three years. The immediate
aftermath is that Apple is swamped by a record number of preorders for the new
iPhone 6 and supersize 6 Plus. Bank of America (BAC), Capital One (COF),
JPMorgan Chase (JPM), and Wells Fargo (WFC), among other banks, plus the major
credit card companies and a number of nationwide retailers, have embraced the
new mobile payment system, Apple Pay. Even the Apple Watch, the company’s
first attempt at launching an entirely new product category in the Cook era,
has garnered an encouraging early response, though it will face the only test
that matters when it hits stores sometime in 2015.

Behind this week's cover
Photograph by Geordie Wood for Bloomberg Businessweek
Behind this week's cover

Cook is eager to declare all this as a decisive victory. “Anybody coming out
of there yesterday knows that innovation is alive and well in Cupertino,” he
says, rocking back and forth in a conference-room chair next to his office, an
Apple Watch on his wrist. “If there were any doubts, I think that they should
be put to bed.”

Behind the product announcements is a different story. When Cook took over
from Jobs three years ago, the chances he could continue Apple’s epic run
appeared slim. The iPhone accounted for more than half of Apple’s revenue and
the bulk of its gross profit. At the same time the rise of phones made by
Samsung Electronics (005930:KS) and other companies that ran Google’s (GOOG)
free Android operating system had left Apple with a shrinking stake of the
smartphone market. A huge part of Apple’s business hinged on what seemed like
a doomed strategy, evoking its defeat to Microsoft (MSFT) Windows in the PC
battle of the 1980s and ’90s.

Cook’s professional background is in managing supply chains, not changing the
character of sprawling, complicated, ego-filled organizations. Yet three years
later, veteran Apple executives repeatedly and emphatically say they want the
new boss to get credit for pulling off one of the more improbable high wire
acts in business history. “I feel damn proud to be working as a part of Tim’s
team,” says Eddy Cue, senior vice president for Internet software and
services. “If he gets a little bit of recognition from the outside world, that
is great. He deserves a lot more than he is going to get.”
 
 
Cook didn’t take control of Apple under anything like ideal circumstances.
“Even though Tim accepted the responsibility of being CEO with all the
enthusiasm you’d expect,” says Robert Iger, Walt Disney’s (DIS) CEO and a
member of Apple’s board, “it was dampened by a very deep sense of mourning. It
made the transition hard, not just for Tim but everybody initially. He had a
lot to prove.”

The company Cook inherited was broken up into specialized groups devoted to
hardware, software design, marketing, and finance, all working separately and
sharing little information with each other; they didn’t need to because the
overarching vision resided in Jobs’s head. After Jobs died, say several people
who were there at the time, it wasn’t clear such a decentralized structure
could survive without a powerful guiding voice at the top. For the first few
months, no one had a clear mandate to make big decisions, and teams were
tussling for turf.

The decisive moment for Cook came at the end of his first year as CEO when he
fired Scott Forstall, one of Jobs’s most trusted lieutenants. Forstall had led
software development for the iPad and iPhone; he was also divisive and
responsible for the poorly received Apple Maps and Siri voice recognition
service. There was an audible gasp in Apple’s offices when the dismissal was
announced, say people who were there. Cook immediately convened meetings with
senior managers to explain how the new structure was going to work. Jonathan
Ive, Apple’s head of design, was given control over the look and feel of iOS
while development of the mobile operating system was consolidated with Mac
software under Craig Federighi, the senior vice president for software
engineering.

“The things we should be doing at Apple are things that others can’t”
It was a plan designed to break down walls and extinguish infighting, executed
with precision. Cook says he has “nothing bad to say” about Forstall and “has
no regrets.”

A decade ago, when he first became a public figure, Cook, now 53, was often
caricatured as Jobs’s logical, icy sidekick—the Spock to his Kirk. In person,
Cook defies those expectations. He bounds toward Apple employees, posing for
on-campus selfies and answering every question regardless of the holes it eats
into his schedule. He can also be quite emotional about a range of subjects
close to his heart, from Auburn University football to social justice. It’s
easy to project this unfailing politeness onto Apple and deduce that the CEO’s
demeanor has trickled down to the corporate ethos. But this gives Cook too
little credit.

Cook at 1 Infinite LoopPhotograph by Geordie Wood for Bloomberg
BusinessweekCook at 1 Infinite Loop

Collaboration may be a virtue, but Cook insists it’s more of a strategic
imperative. Aligning thousands of employees is crucial now that “the lines
between hardware, software, and services are blurred or are disappearing,” he
says. “The only way you can pull this off is when everyone is working together
well. And not just working together well but almost blending together so that
you can’t tell where people are working anymore, because they are so focused
on a great experience that they are not taking functional views of things.”

The result is only now becoming apparent with services that work across
different Apple devices. Embedded in the iPhone 6 and the new iOS 8 and Mac OS
X Yosemite operating system is a feature called Continuity, which lets users
start an e-mail or some other task on their Mac, pick it up on their iPhone,
and then move it to their iPad or even the Apple Watch. “We would never have
gotten there in the old model,” Cook says. These new products are reminders
“of why we exist. The things we should be doing at Apple are things that
others can’t.”

“I don’t consider the bloody ROI. If you want me to do things only for ROI
reasons, you should get out of this stock”
With the Apple Pay service, users will be able to touch their finger to the
Touch ID finger scanner on their iPhone, tap their handset against a credit
card terminal, and make a payment without having to turn on their phone or
open an app. It’s another illustration of Cook’s focus on products that
combine hardware, software, and services—and it’s an important test for the
company. Apple doesn’t have a stellar track record when it comes to making
easy-to-use services. Products such as iCloud, iTunes, and Siri lack the
intuitive polish of Apple’s devices, and customers aren’t likely to be as
forgiving when the stakes are raised from organizing photos to ensuring the
security of their financial transactions.

The new iPhones use a technology called near field communication that employs
a short-range wireless signal to transmit data from the handset to a store’s
payment terminal. Software keeps a person’s credit card information inside the
phone and ensures it’s never shared directly with the merchant. Led by
Jennifer Bailey, a vice president who had overseen Apple’s online store, the
company started pitching this system early last year to banks, credit card
companies, and retailers as more secure, more intuitive, and, unlike previous
mobile payment systems, more likely to actually be used by tens of millions of
iPhone owners. As a result, Apple signed up the largest banks, credit card
companies, and national chains such as McDonald’s (MCD) and Walgreen (WAG).
“They set out to do something from Day One with substantial scale,” says James
Anderson, MasterCard’s (MA) senior vice president for mobile and emerging
payments. “They had a vision for how it was going to work and a vision for how
simple it had to be.”

Cook’s culture hasn’t suited everybody. To one former senior designer,
accustomed to spitballing sessions with Jobs to go over details as minute as
the look of screen icons, the company no longer has the same allure. He says
he left because Apple grew too large and that products once created in small
groups are now done in sprawling teams. Others chafe at Cook’s insistence on
financial discipline; in meetings once devoted to the hallowed act of
reviewing products, he asks managers pointed questions about spending and
hiring projections, says a person involved. Staff from finance and operations
now sit alongside engineers and designers in product road map sessions with
key component partners.

Cook also continues to micromanage areas at Apple where he has the most
expertise. He still holds Friday afternoon meetings with senior managers in
charge of the company’s vast supply chain, much to the chagrin of some who’d
hoped his attendance, and mercilessly detailed questions, would fall off after
he became CEO.
 
 
“Excuse my September allergies,” says Jony Ive, rubbing his nose as he settles
into a black leather seat in Apple’s executive offices. Ive has become a
design legend over the past 15 years, having overseen the look and feel of the
original iPod (2001), iPhone (2007), and iPad (2010). His very name—three
syllables, no unnecessary letters—fits his minimalist aesthetic. He has the
delicate voice and precise diction you’d expect, but he’s thickly built, and
in suede chukka boots, loose-fitting blue-and-white-striped painter’s pants,
and blue T-shirt with glasses hanging from his neck, the world’s most famous
designer could easily be mistaken for the guy who fixes your sink.

“One of our competitors is on their fourth or fifth [watch], but nobody is
wearing them”
With an Apple Watch wrapped around his hand brass-knuckle style, Ive reveals
that the project was conceived in his lab three years ago, shortly after
Jobs’s death and before “wearables” became a buzzword in Silicon Valley. “It’s
probably one of the most difficult projects I have ever worked on,” he says.
There are numerous reasons for this—the complexity of the engineering, the
need for new physical interactions between the watch and the human body—but
the one most pertinent to Ive is that the Apple Watch is the first Apple
product that looks more like the past than the future. The company invited a
series of watch historians to Cupertino to speak, including French author
Dominique Fléchon, an expert in antique timepieces. Fléchon says only that the
“discussion included the philosophy of instruments for measuring time” and
notes that the Apple Watch may not be as timeless as some classic Swiss
watches: “The evolution of the technologies will render very quickly the Apple
Watch obsolete,” he says.

Ive, 47, immersed himself in horological history. Clocks first popped up on
top of towers in the center of towns and over time were gradually
miniaturized, appearing on belt buckles, as neck pendants, and inside trouser
pockets. They eventually migrated to the wrist, first as a way for ship
captains to tell time while keeping their hands firmly locked on the wheel.
“What was interesting is that it took centuries to find the wrist and then it
didn’t go anywhere else,” Ive says. “I would argue the wrist is the right
place for the technology.”

Ive’s team first tried using the same pinch-to-zoom touchscreen they’d
invented for the iPhone, but the screen was too small and their fingers
obscured the display. A year into the project, the group started toying with
what became the Apple Watch’s defining physical feature: “the digital crown,”
a variation on the knob that’s used to wind and set the time on a traditional
wristwatch. By pressing or rotating the crown, Apple Watch users can return to
the home screen, zoom in or out, and scroll through apps.

Watches are as much about fashion as functionality. Ive and his colleagues
indulged their obsession for detail and designed three collections of devices
made of different materials and seven watchbands with their own features and
flourishes. Ive handles each of the watches with the proud familiarity of a
father, demonstrating, for example, how links can be plucked off a stainless
steel band by pressing two buttons, no specialized jeweler’s tool required. In
another bit of engineering cleverness, the watch’s packaging doubles as a
charging stand; wearers nestle the watch against an inductive magnet inside
the watch box to recharge it. (How often they’ll have to recharge remains
unknown. Apple hasn’t yet announced specs on the watches’ battery life.)

For every $100, Apple takes nearly $38

By last summer, with Apple’s stock down by as much as 40 percent from a record
high because of concerns about the lack of new products, Cook was ready to
accelerate the project. (The stock, now at around $100, has recovered all that
ground and then some.) Apple insiders say that while an executive named Dan
Riccio, who leads hardware engineering, would have been the obvious choice to
take over the Watch program, Cook assigned it to Jeff Williams, 51, senior
vice president for operations. Williams is Cook’s go-to guy—he vets possible
acquisitions, coordinates with Foxconn Technology (2354:TT) and other
manufacturers, and oversees the logistics needed to get millions of devices
from Asian factories to stores around the world. He’s an uncanny Cook clone:
tall, soft-spoken, and an avid fitness buff with an inexhaustible memory for
operational details. Both men have MBAs from Duke University and spent early
parts of their careers at IBM (IBM). In the new Apple, he’s Tim Cook’s Tim
Cook.

Williams took over a team that had little in common with the small groups that
created the Macintosh and iPhone, which considered themselves renegades
operating in secrecy from other colleagues. The watch team included hundreds
of engineers, designers, and marketing people and was the kind of
cross-company interdisciplinary team now common under Cook. Apple, which has
more than 1,000 chip designers, built the new S1 processor that powers the
watch. Metallurgists responsible for the casing for Macs and iPhones devised a
stronger gold alloy for the premium model of the watch, and Apple’s algorithm
scientists studied how to improve the accuracy of the watch’s heart rate
sensor.

Williams is unapologetic about the Apple Watch missing the 2014 holiday
season. “We want to make the best product in the world,” he says. “One of our
competitors is on their fourth or fifth attempt, but nobody is wearing them.”
Cook also preaches patience. “We could have done the watch much earlier,
honestly, but not at the fit and finish and quality and integration of these
products,” he says. “And so we are willing to wait.”

Critics of Apple—they do exist—say the watch’s user interface is confusing and
that it’s not entirely clear whether there’s a “killer app” or what, if
anything, the watch does better than a smartphone. Prices start at $349, which
is more than most users will pay for an iPhone 6 with a two-year contract.


Photograph by Geordie Wood for Bloomberg Businessweek
Cook says he wishes he could make the device more affordable, particularly
since the company boasts of its potential to help customers manage their
health and wellness (“that’s the humanitarian coming out”), but he won’t
compromise Apple’s large profit margins to make it happen. (Cook theorizes
that employers eager to see their workers become healthier may subsidize the
device.) Then there are fashion considerations. “Some men will find it to be a
little too feminine and some women will find it too bulky and possibly too
masculine,” says Gadi Amit, president of the San Francisco firm NewDealDesign.

Cook sees the watch as a way for customers to manage their fitness and improve
their daily lives and as an ever-present remote control for their televisions,
home appliances, and online relationships. “I think it’s the beginning of a
very long run,” he says.
 
 
At Apple’s March shareholder meeting, a representative from the conservative
National Center for Public Policy Research questioned Cook on Apple’s
commitment to making its factories carbon neutral and removing harmful
chemicals from its products. What was the return on investment? Cook showed an
uncharacteristic flash of real anger. “I don’t consider the bloody ROI,” he
said. “If you want me to do things only for ROI reasons, you should get out of
this stock.” The crowd erupted into raucous applause.

Team Tim

Last year Cook hired Lisa Jackson, the former director of the Environmental
Protection Agency, to lead Apple’s environmental initiatives. And he hasn’t
met an in-house environmental impact video he hasn’t lovingly embraced,
narrating them personally in his Alabama baritone. Jobs sometimes gestured
toward caring about stuff like Apple’s climate impact, too—when he wasn’t
dismissing it as “bulls---,” as he did in 2005 in response to
criticism that the company didn’t do enough to limit the chemicals in its
products or make them more recyclable.

One of Cook’s mantras is that Apple should “default to open” on issues of
corporate responsibility and engage on causes that are important to customers.
In the old Apple, “it was the ‘just be quiet, just say nothing, only talk
about things that are completed,’” Cook says. “My view is that that doesn’t
work in things involving social responsibility. … I’m going to be 100 percent
transparent.” (Alas, that transparency stops at Apple’s product plans. On
those, he’d “like to find a way to be more secretive, but unfortunately the
rumor mill goes a little beyond me.”)

In August, Apple released its internal diversity report. Its employment
numbers were lopsided toward white and Asian men. “There was a view we
shouldn’t” release the report, Cook says. “I didn’t agree. … It clearly says
we’re not a perfect company, and we have work to do. And that’s fine.” The
company continues to struggle with conditions at its factories in China, with
an internal audit this year documenting use of underage laborers and abuse of
migrant workers.

There’s another kind of openness at Apple as well. Cook is more willing to
acknowledge weaknesses in its business and, when necessary, seek outside
partnerships to boost demand for products. In July the company linked up with
IBM, its original arch nemesis, to sell iPads and iPhones to large companies
and develop industry-specific productivity apps. The deal was an
acknowledgment that Apple needs to find new ways to sell its devices,
particularly the iPad, which accounted for 20 percent of its sales last year
and has hit a surprising slump in recent quarters. Ginni Rometty, IBM’s chief
executive, calls Cook the “hallmark of a modern-day CEO. It’s all about
clarity of vision and knowing what to do and what not to do.”

Cook had decided that Apple needed more corporate customers but didn’t want to
add the requisite army of buttoned-up salespeople. So he found a partner. Cook
says the IBM venture is the perfect deal, because it plays to both companies’
strengths and there’s little competitive overlap. “I don’t want 100,000 people
that do consulting,” he says. And an IBM smartwatch? “You wouldn’t want to see
it. It would be awful,” Cook says. “I think [Rometty] would admit that.”

Photograph by Geordie Wood for Bloomberg Businessweek

Apple learned to play well with others the hard way—from working with hundreds
of wireless carriers such as AT&T over the last few years. Apple’s carrier
partners are a little like younger brothers: congenitally put upon, thoroughly
dominated, but ultimately along for a tremendous ride. The carriers say Apple
under Cook can still be imposing and secretive, though now there’s more of a
personal touch. “Tim’s a tough negotiator,” says Glenn Lurie, CEO of AT&T
Mobility, who’s been working with Cook since before the release of the iPhone
in 2007. “He’s a very consistent guy, and that makes it a lot easier to do
business with him.”

Apple is also more willing to seek another kind of outside help. Over the last
few months, the company’s gone on a hiring spree, vacuuming up accomplished
tastemakers such as Patrick Pruniaux, the chief salesman at watchmaker Tag
Heuer; Paul Deneve, the former CEO of couture house Yves Saint Laurent; and
Angela Ahrendts, Burberry’s (BRBY:LN) former chief executive, who joined Apple
to run its stores.

The recruitment spree isn’t only about finding people who know how to sell
watches at extravagant markups, but also about adding a diversity of views
inside the company. Cook “is very focused on finding a very wide range of
people,” says Susan Wagner, founding partner and director of asset-management
firm BlackRock (BLK), Apple’s largest shareholder, who joined the company’s
board earlier this summer. “It’s not automatically the way you think about
diversity. It’s about bringing in experience, skill set, and perspective.”

Cook “is comfortable enough to say ‘we need help here,’ and then he goes out
and gets it,” says Jimmy Iovine, who became a part of the talent wave, along
with Dr. Dre, the hip-hop impresario, when Apple acquired their company, Beats
Electronics, in May for $3 billion, the biggest acquisition in the company’s
history.

In Beats, Apple got a business in fashionable (some might say overpriced)
headphones and wireless speakers that brought in more than a billion dollars
in revenue last year. Yet Cook says he bought the company for another
reason—to enlist its brokers of cool to help Apple reestablish its core
franchise in digital music amid the decline of single track downloads on
iTunes and the rise of streaming music services such as Pandora (P). “The
recording industry desperately needs a delivery system that is as compelling
as the music,” says Iovine, nestled among celebrities and journalists after
Apple’s product introduction in the blindingly white demo hall that the
company constructed next to the Flint Center.

As he speaks, Gwen Stefani is trying to get his attention, but Iovine doesn’t
notice. He’s engrossed in describing his new colleagues’ quest to sell
high-fashion, high-tech merchandise. “These guys don’t want to just hire it,”
he says. “They want to understand it. They want our input. They’ve been all
over us for input.”

Cook concedes that consumers will issue the ultimate verdict on the Apple
Watch, his biggest bet so far as chief executive. “You don’t really know on
that first day or first weekend,” he says. “With things that are new, it’s not
like a movie, where you can look at that first weekend and draw the line.” If
consumers are befuddled or ambivalent, the questions about his product chops,
and Apple’s ability to innovate, will return with a new ferocity.

He’s also likely to face challenges retaining Apple’s top talent. Longtime
execs such as Philip Schiller, the marketing chief, and Eddy Cue, who runs
iTunes and the App Store, are worth hundreds of millions and could easily
retire to spend more time with their car collections. Ive owns Jobs’s 15-seat
Gulfstream jet, which he bought from Jobs’s widow at a significant discount,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction. As Ive, who helped
Jobs decorate the interior, joked to a friend, “At least I don’t have to
redesign anything.”

Some former Apple executives think Ive could be inching toward the door and
interpret the recent hiring of celebrity designer Marc Newson, Ive’s friend,
as evidence he may be staying put for now. An Apple spokeswoman declines to
comment on Ive’s plans, and Schiller says the team is staying together. “A lot
of us at Apple are here because we love the products,” he says. “We think we
are making the best products we have ever made as a company.”

For now Cook is just trying to capitalize on the attention and enjoy the
moment he worked the past three years for. Backstage at the Flint Center
before the Sept. 9 event, he could be found with his white earbuds on,
psyching himself up by listening to the OneRepublic song I Lived on his
iPhone. “Hope when you take that jump, you don’t fear the fall … / Hope when
the crowd screams out, they’re screaming your name.”
