The program graph.c is a program that when run, shows a graph of the function 10*(2+sin(2x)-cos(x)), along with the corresponding x and y values for each point on the graph.

From the user's perspective, when the program is run, the graph appears, and it has a nice table on the left of the graph to show the corresponding values of X and Y. The maximum and minimum are displayed below the graph, along with their corresponding X values for each (If the values occur more than once, the first instance of X is shown). Above th graph is statement of what function the graph plots. The graph is plotted with the # character. 

From a programming perspective, the math.h library had to be used in order to have access to the sine, cosine, and rint functions. All of the variables were declared at the beginning of the program, including r, min, minx, max, maxx, y, x, and i. The program then has a for loop that increments x from 0.0 to 20.0 in increments of 0.2, and from there calculates the corresponding y value of the function. This value is stored into the variable y. After y is assigned, the program checks if the y value is the highest or lowest value that has been seen yet. If so, it assigns the variable max or min to the value of y (depending if the value is a max or min). If y is a max or min, then the value of maxx or minx is updated with the x value for the iteration. 
Next, the plotting occurs. The variable r is given a value that is the closest integer value to the variable y. This is done using the rint(y) function. After this, the x and y values are displayed in a formatted way using printf functions. After these numbers are displayed, the graph for the current number is created with a for loop. For i=1-r, the program prints a #, for a total of r #s, then a newline is printed.
This is repeated until x>=20.1, forming a full graph.
Lastly, the values of min and max along with their corresponding x values are displayed in sentences using printf.

The program is correct for the function 10*(2+sin(2x)-cos(x)), and this was verified through an outside graphing agent. The graph and max and min values corresponded to the graph shown in the program graph.c
